+++
draft = true
date = 2021-02-17T22:22:22+05:30
title = "System Design Part 1 : Application and Architecture"
slug = ""
tags = ["System Design"]
categories = []
math = "true"
+++

## Different Tiers in Software Architecture

- What is Tier ?
    - physical separation of components in an application or a service
    - components
        - database
        - backend application server
        - UI
        - Messaging
        - Caching

- Single Tier Application
    - UI, backend business logic and database all resides in same machine
    - eg. MS office, PC games, Gimp
    - Advantages
        - no network latency
        - no data requests to the backend server every now and then
        - depends on the hardware requirements to gauge the real performance
        - data of the user stays in his machine
    - Disadvantages
        - business has no control over the application
        - customer manually updates it by connecting to the remote server or by downloading & installing a patch
        - testing of the product has to be thorough, there is no room for any mistakes.
        - code is vulnerable to being tweaked & reversed engineered
        - application performance & the look and feel can get inconsistent as it largely depends on the configuration of the user’s machine.
    
- Two Tier Application
    - involves a client and a server
    - client would contain the user interface & the business logic in one machine
    - backend server would be the database running on a different machine
    - database server is hosted by the business & has control over it.
    - eg. productivity app, app-based games

- Three Tier Application
    - the UI, application logic & the database all lie on different machines
    - eg. all of the simple websites like blogs, news websites etc. 

- N Tier Application
    - more than three components involved
    - components can invlove
        - cache
        - message queues
        - load balancers
        - search servers
    - eg. Instagra, Facebook, Airbnb, Pokemon Go
    - Software Design Principles
        - Single Responsibility Principle
            - giving one, just one responsibility to a component & letting it execute it with perfection
            - gives a lot of flexibility & makes management easier
            - other components of the service running wouldn't get impacted even if something amiss happens in one component
            - can have dedicated teams & code repositories for every component
            - a database should not hold business logic, it should only take care of persisting the data.
            - separate tiers for separate components.
        - Separation Of Concerns
            - be concerned about your work only & stop worrying about the rest of the stuff.
            - keeping the components separate makes them reusable
            - having loosely coupled components is the way to go.

## Web Architecture

- Involves multiple components like database, message queue, cache, user interface & all running in conjunction with each other to form an online service.

- Client Server Architecture
    - works on a request-response model
    - client sends the request to the server for information & the server responds with it.
- Client
    - client holds our user interface
    - UI is the presentation part of the application
    - written in Html, JavaScript, CSS and is responsible for the look & feel of the application.
    - client can be a mobile app, a desktop or a tablet like an iPad.
    - technologies popular for writing the web-based UI are ReactJS, AngularJS, VueJS, Jquery etc. All these libraries use JavaScript.
    - different platforms require different frameworks & libraries to write front-end.
- Types of Client
    - Thin Client
        - holds just the user interface of the application.
        - no business logic present on the client
        - for every action, the client sends a request to the backend server.
    - Thick Client
        - holds all or some part of the business logic.
- Server
    - 




